+++
slug = "Histone variant H2A.J accumulates in senescent cells and promotes inflammatory gene expression"
title = "Histone variant H2A.J accumulates in senescent cells and promotes inflammatory gene expression"
date = 2017-05-10T00:00:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["K. Contrepois", "C. Coudereau", "B.A. Benayoun", "N. Schuler", "P.F. Roux", "O. Bischof", "R. Courbeyrette", "C. Carvalho", "J.Y. Thuret", "Z. Ma", "C. Derbois", "M.C. Nevers", "H. Volland", "C.E. Redon", "W.M. Bonner", "J.F. Deleuze", "C. Wiel", "D. Bernard", "M.P. Snyder", "C.E. Rübe", "R. Olaso", "F. Fenaille", "C. Mann"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Nature Communications*"
#publication_short = "In *SITIS*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The senescence of mammalian cells is characterized by a proliferative arrest in response to stress and the expression of an inflammatory phenotype. Here we show that histone H2A.J, a poorly studied H2A variant found only in mammals, accumulates in human fibroblasts in senescence with persistent DNA damage. H2A.J also accumulates in mice with aging in a tissue-specific manner and in human skin. Knock-down of H2A.J inhibits the expression of inflammatory genes that contribute to the senescent-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), and over expression of H2A.J increases the expression of some of these genes in proliferating cells. H2A.J accumulation may thus promote the signalling of senescent cells to the immune system, and it may contribute to chronic inflammation and the development of aging-associated diseases."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
projects = ["senescence"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms14995.pdf"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "exmple.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

